7:06 p.m. And I will call the public
hearing to order.
Public hearing of the continuence from
June 17th, the application of Fitch
Family Farm. Brian Fitch to amend annual
resoning regulations to include language
to regulate an tourism event. The
applicant is proposing language for endo
with landing and zoning permission to
consider that would allow for accessory
agricultural related uses and
non-aggriculturally
related uses that include but are not
limited to weddings, banquetss and
concerts.
So, at this point, John, if uh I'm
going to ask that you try to display
version three
on the on the screen there.
>> Version three. Hang on.
>> Would be I think it was right down at
the bottom of the uh application file.
>> Oh. Oh, okay. Hold on. I'm I was I was
looking through my through my archived
emails. I'll get on the website in just
a second.
>> No, it was on the uh So, it was on the
uh website, you know, looking at the art
no
it was yeah the current applications
and uh under the agro tourism all the
way down to the bottom was version
three.
Sorry, Jud. It's It's on um
>> Okay, hold on. I'm looking at
application submitted pending, right? Or
>> Y pending.
And
>> it should be top one, I think, in that
file.
B3. Okay, I got you. All right, bringing
it up.
Yeah, one more click there. Okay, I
could read that anyhow, but uh
>> Okay,
>> so anyhow,
we've gone through a couple of versions
of this already.
I
tweaked on it a little bit since the
time we met.
I sent it through uh attorney Mark
Branch for his review. media gave me a
couple of suggestions on it and I will
go through what I've changed since the
last time we gathered.
Um, but this is still Ryan's
application. So, uh, your application,
I'll tell you what, what what I did to
it
in probably one of the biggest biggest
changes was under the agricultural
accessory uses,
the last last sentence there, a site
plan review is required for agricultural
accessory uses. So in in the last
version
we didn't require anything if it was
related to agricultural
um
I felt that was probably
not the best approach and so uh you know
we changed it to requiring a site plan
for that as well. The difference between
a site plan and a special permit a site
plan doesn't require the public hearing
and that sort of thing. So if it's
agriculturally related like horse shows
and you know farm seminars and that kind
of thing site land review. The other
thing we did uh in that paragraph is on
the previous version we had as an
example of an agricultural accessory use
of pick your own
food items. Strawberries, apples,
Christmas trees, you name it. And uh
I thought that that was
essentially farming and not agro
tourism. And so farming still takes no
site plan review. That's that's allowed
by right. Um and we took that out of
there just to try and uh eliminate the
confusion and get a rule separation.
Um
coming down no changes to uh to
paragraph B there general requirements
and so the general requirements now
pertain both to agricultural related and
non-aggricultural related um
and so uh
one of the things that I did based on uh
Katherine Hutchinson's
public comment about uh the number of
farms in the area. Um
I did put you know the words back in
there that we had on the first go around
which required uh the farm to be a a 490
farm to take advantage of the agro
tourism regulation.
The other thing we did there is, you
know, I I raised the acreage back up to
10 acres for non-aggricultural and
specified a minimum marshal size of 3
acres for an agricultural use.
And I think that was the only changes.
Well, I guess one of the things I did to
consolidate, we had two different
sections where we had information on
parking listed twice and I tried to
gather it all together to eliminate the
unnecessary words there. But
but we're going to go down to the page
two
sub paragraph G at the top there.
the uh
so the hours of operation that we we
didn't have
specified the in there before
you know the the application talked
about events on the weekends Fridays
Saturdays and Sundays I added the rest
of the week in there because somebody
might want to do something during the
week
the the last sentence under uh G talks
about subject to modification by
planning and zoning commission to
require fewer hours.
Planning and zoning commission by the
way the words are written here doesn't
have the latitude to extend the hours
any long any further than what's in
here. And if you know we found out after
giving this some runtime we needed to do
that we could change the regulation but
the planning and zoning commission
doesn't have the opportunity to do that
down in paragraph H.
I added the words uh you know between 12
pm and 8 pm on all other days again
gives the opportunity to um
have an event during the week
and then uh I think I changed the uh
where it talks about events and
activities shall remain within state
decibel limits again I don't know I
wasn't able to figure out exactly what
those
It may include after sound to the
applicant can demonstrate to the
commission that sound via distance
structures landscaping can be attenuated
to background level that the property
line and again that does not mean that
you can't hear it. Uh that just means
that on your meter you don't see a
decibel increase in the sound at that
point.
>> I do have a question on the last
sentence.
>> Okay. Yeah. What is that? But the
applicant shall include sound
attenuation details. So,
so it's going to be the applicant's
responsibility
to maintain those sound levels at a
background level.
>> I thought it was a test of some sort
prior to the
>> Nope. Just uh
>> just maintaining and having some kind of
reading. Well, you have to Yes, you have
to monitor the levels of the property
line to make sure that uh you know
you've got the volume switch of the
equipment set right
uh down under lighting. If uh if the
events are going to be held after after
dark, um
we do expect that there'll be lighting
for the safety of the participants and
that should uh that should be uh in
accordance with the regulations that we
have on lighting.
And I think going down to the health
district approval,
the last sentence is just sort of a typo
says and shall provide a copy of the
approval to the with the permit
application.
Uh what I got to do when and yeah wasn't
on that. I
discovered that reading through later on
to cross out the word to go. So a copy
of the approval with the permit
application that we get from the the
health district.
Okay. Go down to the last paragraph.
So, one of the things that we had in uh
homebased businesses that I liked is
there's you know we can approve it on a
temporary basis, try it out. Um there
were some people in the public comment
section that uh you know were interested
in that and so I borrowed those uh those
words essentially from the uh homebased
business and said
non-aggricultural
accessory special permit approval shall
be issued for a trial period of up to
one year to ensure coverage of the
summer season during which di activity
can be reported to the commission and
may be observed to make an initial
evaluation. possible.
You know, if we had
if you entered a permit in October and
it was for 3 months or something, you
know, I don't think you have any events
going on
uh over that. So, that would give us the
opportunity to see how it's going before
we make that permanent.
And that is I think what I changed on
your behalf.
>> Go right ahead.
>> And I just want to put in a note. It's
not an end all, but I really think the
10 acres is a little too much. We
already, you know, I I already explained
that because again, that's a minimum.
Um, you know, I would thought a little
bit less would be um better, but um it's
not a you know, endall. The uh other
thing is the street parking. Um what do
you consider the street parking? Because
I know if someone parks on the side of
the grass um within 15 ft or so, that's
still not their property. So is that
considered street parking?
>> So what I consider street parking is is
if somebody parked on Bunker Hill Road,
which they are right now at the church.
Okay,
that they're off the road, but they're
on the grass.
>> Um, and again,
>> um, I don't think it's a big factor for
us. And don't forget, you know, Bunker
Hill is a now it's a dead end. Yeah,
>> it's very nice. Um, but it is, you know,
not as much traveled road. Um, I just
wanted to get a clarification on on
street or you know on the grass 10 feet
or five feet off the road.
>> Answer that
>> and and I can give you a definitive
answer.
>> Okay.
>> Town easement exists to 25 ft from the
center line of the road in each
direction.
>> Yeah. But but
>> that's not always that's not always the
case. Street parking is within the
easement whether it's on pavement or not
within 25 the center line has street
parking
>> and my thought was most farms had
sufficient land
>> they shouldn't run into a problem but I
think some may you know and again
>> huh
>> you dream of that happening
>> well we would be glad that'd be great
has happened yet um but we would you
know again at the same token I'm looking
at other things that are going out of
town and when I drive by my house every
day on Tuesdays. That's not being
adhered to. Um, and that's all. I mean,
I'm not I'm not one that's going to
complain. I have no issues with it
because to me, it's not a heavy traffic
anyways. I'm not interfering with
anyone, you know. So, I'm not one of
those. But that's but you know when you
do bring a special permit or a site plan
for review you know we need to see
parking
>> laid out because that's going to
determine how many people you can have
an event.
>> Yep. And it won't like I said it won't
run. We've had over a thousand people
for the the uh events and there's never
been issues parking there. Um not my
event.
>> Is that for your No, that's for the
pocket.
>> Okay. No, that's good. That's good. So,
we really have no issues parking there.
So, okay. I think was was pretty legit.
>> Okay. There's a couple of things that I
would have written different if it was
my application coming, but it's yours. I
don't I think I have a good
understanding of what you're looking for
and uh try to make the
procedures, the regulation reflect that.
Um,
so if you didn't have any other
comments, um, Wayne, did you have any
comments,
questions?
[Music]
No.
>> Okay.
Down planner, John.
Uh, no. I think this this reflects um I
think a decent combination of the
applicant's initial intent and some of
the comments that we received from the
commission and the public over the last
couple of months. So, I I I think this
is a decent uh synthesis.
>> Any
um commission members? And so I don't
forget I'm starting with Leanne
Hello.
>> Hi. Go ahead.
>> Hi. Um,
>> yes. I have several questions
um pertaining all pertaining to the
noise and the hours. Um mainly because
that's the main thing that was brought
up at the last couple of meetings by
neighbors and people who could hear um
you know the goings on. Um, one of my
questions is
in the and with that in mind, um, I
think a month or two ago, Jed, I think
you expressed that you'd prefer to see
amplified sound anyway end at 9:00 as
opposed to 10:00. And Ryan Fitch
explained that, you know, sometimes for
some of his events by the time people
get out of work, depending on what the
event is. Um, the later he might start
an event a little later and therefore
want to end it a little bit later. So,
that's not in here. I thought maybe 9:30
was going to be a compromise. Um, I see
it's now 10:00 and it's also 11:00 right
now. I believe it's just one day a week,
but it's 11:00 in here for non-amplified
sound. So my question is how were those
two things arrived at? And um you know
what happened to the idea which again I
think Jed you put forward um that maybe
and I think I might have suggested also
that 9:30 might be a compromise at least
for the amplified
noise. And um another question is in the
previous two vers
so I so I can you give me two and I'll
forget the first one.
>> The uh
>> okay
>> the issue about
again this is this is Ryan Bitch's
application not Jed Larson's
application.
Uh, I probably would have put a
different kind in there, but it's Ryan's
application and I know what he wants and
I figure we'll discuss that when we get
to deliberation
um hopefully later this evening.
>> All of it.
>> Okay.
>> Every change that we would like to say
>> or are we going to talk about right now?
>> If it Well, you can ask questions now.
You know, I don't want it. It's I don't
want to get into uh deliberation that's
after the public hearing is closed. Our
our goal at this point is to make sure
we understand the input that we got from
the public
and that includes the applicant at this
point. And uh
and I think
I know I feel that I have a good sense
of the input we got from the public and
understand uh you know the concerns, the
support um
and that sort of thing.
So, but if you have questions,
>> you know, she had some
question.
>> Yep. So, and I had the same questions
that she had about the time I know that
it was stated that we were interested in
9:00.
>> Yep.
>> Okay. And I was to the start time on
noon time. I mean on Sundays is it's
says uh whatever I mean church gets out
at 11 or 12. So I would think that it'
be after that point to start time on
Sunday.
>> 6
to
>> Yep. We can we can just when we
deliberate, we can discuss what the what
those different times are. You know, I
just put those in there. Uh you know, I
added some times that I thought were
reasonable for other days during the
week and that sort of thing. And uh
>> but I do think the crux of the matter is
going to be put down the sound.
>> On line 87, it says non-aggricultural
uh accessory special permit if there's
nothing that addresses agricultural use.
>> That's true. So
since the agricultural related things
again uh were were more agricultural
related in nature I uh didn't think that
would be I chose not to put a trial
period in for that you know what what I
think the issue is the issue I heard
from both pros and cons from everybody
who talked was about uh sound
Now, I guess if we got a lot of of, you
know, there was a a rodeo
and uh that went on at night.
Maybe maybe that is agriculturally
related plank with the Christmas tree
farm. I don't know. Um,
maybe we want to add that in there for
both that, you know, this could have
been maybe I wrote that before
I changed to require a site plan review
for the non-aggricultural ones. I I I
don't know what sequence it went in
there. So, good point. we can deliberate
that when we get to that point then uh
maybe if if that's what the commission
wants to do then then that's where we'll
head.
>> Another thing is if if I might I think
we're at the point where the questions
are for the proponent of the
application. Aren't they?
>> Um
>> sounds a lot like deliberation to me.
That's all I'm saying.
>> Yeah, we are.
I know there's an interest there and I
remember
a previous similar situation
where I put Annne Greet off until after
we were done and then when we got to
deliberation we were really in a hurry
to get done or something because it was
way late and Ann didn't get to say her
piece. So, I'm sensitive to that, but I
do think, you know, we're entering into
the realm of deliberation and and we'll
make sure that we have plenty of time to
do that. And if we don't finish it
tonight, we'll continue that for the
next meeting if that's what we need to
do.
But, I'm interested in other questions
that you might have if they're not
deliberation in nature.
Well, I can bring it up now and then um
so that it's you know people can be
thinking about it and then if you want
to make it um a deliberation later in
the meeting um related to the noise is
in at least one and possibly two of the
earlier versions to do with the noise
and the hours. There was mention of the
hours did not include setup and takeown
time for any given event and that seems
to have been removed from here. So again
just and trying to be in keeping with
the you know the main concerns that we
have gotten in the last couple of
meetings from neighbors is was about
noise. So again, the setup and takedown
part seems to have been removed and that
could involve um some other noise,
albeit probably a lower level um
depending on again what time things
start and end. In other words, there
would still be people talking. There'd
still be car doors slamming. So I wonder
if that was omitted on purpose or if it
just didn't get into this version.
>> It was omitted on purpose.
Um, maybe it shouldn't have been, but as
I was going through this, you know, I
was hoping that we wouldn't be out
making a lot of noise, setting up and
taking it down at 3:00 in the morning.
Um,
I guess, you know,
so I've uh got that as something to to
think a look at. I uh I thought that,
you know, when the the concert gets
done, everybody goes home. Um you know
certainly that could be discussed
in the site plan review the special
permit. This is putting some
so maybe the right answer to that is to
specify
in the special permit or the site plan
what the take
setup and and takeout hours are so that
they get done that I don't know what
they do with the fairs over there. I
know they set up on the day, you know,
the first day and when that gets torn
down, I don't know,
but I did intentionally remove it. Maybe
not the smartest thing. That's why we'll
we have commission discussion on it when
we're done.
>> Okay. Just so I hear you clearly, you
you say you it was or was not omitted on
purpose.
>> It was omitted on purpose.
Maybe not the best move, but it was
intentional.
And and again, my thoughts, I'm only one
member of the commission. We've got uh
you know, five commission members that
that will kick it around to make sure
that we uh add in there what we need to.
If that's what the commissioner wants,
we'll put it back in
or make sure that it's covered uh you
know, under the the site plan.
>> Okay. And I guess the only other thing
I'll mention which is more of a just an
observation than a um it's not a
question is that um you know just to
repeat I know we all know this this
would apply all over town. This is you
know Ryan Fitch originating this and etc
but again I'm not completely sure just
for audience members or what have you
that people realize that this this would
apply anywhere in town.
>> True. Yeah. And uh you know, one of the
things that uh
it could be uh you know, some similar
events going on over at Yman's Free Farm
on Andover Lake.
>> Um
>> so, you know, I uh I know I wouldn't be
ecstatic with that happening, but uh but
that would would be allowed by this
procedure. they got to go through the
site plan review and and all that kind
of stuff like like yes it does and
that's why I went back up to 10 acres
and I specified a minimum minimum size
of three acres for agricultural related
that was one of Mark Brans's comments to
me said okay I've got my 3/4 acre lot I
got my cabbage patch I'm going to go
have the cabbage patch festival and uh
there's nothing you can do about it and
So, I tried to uh accommodate that a
little bit. Um, but we'll we'll talk
during deliberation about how to best
handle setup and take down. Good
comment. Anything else, Leanne?
>> No.
>> Okay, I'm going to go to Ann Marie next.
Uh,
>> uh, I have no questions. Thank you.
>> Okay, Kevin.
The only thing that I could think of
pointing out at this point other than
what's already been said, uh, you have
the space requirements for the venue.
And I just was wondering if you wanted
to consider adding, uh, a distance from
the venue to the property boundary. Uh,
because you could have something like 10
acres and you could just put the venue
right in the corner. Uh, and then you'd
be right up against your butters. But
that was my only comment.
Okay. Yeah. Thanks, Kevin. And uh again,
I probably was uh reviewing this
application knowing the applicant and
mine and that his uh his little stage
area is uh well aware that if we're if
we're minimum distances for parking
spaces, we probably ought to put minimum
distance for the uh
>> the uh
>> it it was just to make sure that the
venue is not sitting right. I know for
this application, it's totally fine and
there's plenty of space. It was just to
to Le's point since it does exist
throughout since it's add being added to
the regulations for the town uh if it
pops up somewhere else it might be
something that people would want to
consider at this point.
>> No, that's a that's a good point, Kevin.
And again, we, you know, one of the
things that's sort of going on a little
in reverse order than what we would
normally do is, you know, the town has
an application to change the rigs. We
get to carefully vet it and uh go
through it all before we bring it to
public hearing. Now, we're trying to do
that after the public hearing and that's
just the nature of how it went. So,
we'll we'll do the best we can, but
there might be a little more revision
than what we would normally expect
because of that. This is the first time
really the commission has had a chance
to weigh in on uh
on what we think is getting close to a
final product. So, it it'll take a
little bit. And I apprec I really
appreciate Gimler.
Anything else, Devin? Uh
>> that's all I had for now.
>> Okay, Patrick.
Well, um, you know, we're trying to
encourage agurism and and our small
businesses and, um, but I I did a I did
a review of our state sound ordinances.
>> Yep.
>> And, uh, anything from see I forgot the
hours, but 10 o'clock at night is the
cuto off for daytime sound level
measuring according to the state D. And
then um
so we're in in alignment with that
except if you wanted to go to 11 that's
like a
you know a little bit longer. Um also
they break this down into what's the
land use already. Like if it if it's a
class A, B or C, A is residential, B is
um kind of like our mixed use full
industrial. I'm just you know
paraphrasing. Um, and
is are those the levels we're going to
be going to as far as our measurements
if we go to have any
enforcement or
is that we will be going to measure at
the property line no increase in
background.
>> Okay.
I know how to do that.
Okay. Well, it just seems that the
state's regulations are looser than what
we will be even proposing. That's all. I
just wanted to make a record of that
then.
>> Okay, that's fine. Yeah.
>> And since we have no sound ordinance per
se would default to the state's rules,
>> maybe we should.
>> I just wanted to bring that into the
discussion at this point before we, you
know.
>> Yeah.
>> Um,
that's all I have at the moment, but
>> Okay.
>> I circle back.
>> Yep. Scott. Um
well the things that I mentioned already
and
this would include 33 properties in
handover
>> but the 10 acres are greater right
>> y
>> farm or not farm right
>> and um
yeah the things that I already mentioned
about times
on Sunday noon Um,
and I was just trying to think of a way
that we could change this so it wasn't
so expansive, you know, 33 properties.
And and if you did it to the um
industrial zone, you put it in the
industrial zone, then it would limit
amount of people that could do it. And
Ryan still is in that. he is um most
farms are not in the industrial zone,
right?
>> And uh you know
I guess the the other farm that
I'm thinking that we needed to make sure
the regulations would would support was
Hurst Farm.
M I'm not aware of a lot of farms other
than you know Hurst and Fish, but those
are the ones in in hand over.
>> All I'm saying is it could turn into a
noisy.
>> It could. Yep.
>> Okay. Just so everybody knows publicly
amplified music going on.
It's possible it won't happen, but
they're going to be very boring.
>> I don't think 32 other bars while lose
money. I got to do on these events.
>> And you have to answer the questions.
>> I think most everything has been covered
and I would have asked probably we'll
just join in with deliberations later.
>> Okay. Andreas
send.
>> Okay. Um I'm going to open it up to the
public here and uh Baron, I see uh
you're on the screen here, so we'll
start with you.
Um hi, how are you
>> doing? Okay,
>> great. Um,
as far as the um the decibel limits and
the attenuated to the to the uh
background level,
I just want you to keep in mind that
living on Route Six, there's
there's a time when it's kind of peak
noisy and then it gets quieter.
Usually, it gets quieter at night. So
it's not just it's not just one
like
solid,
you know, the sound the sound varies. So
at night it's particularly, you know,
it's when you're hearing a concert, it's
particularly amplified because that's
the time of the day when you're more
likely, you know, living on Route Six,
looking forward to that quiet time.
So,
you know, um when you're when you're
measuring these decibel levels, I think
you should also keep that in mind the
time of the time of day um that you're
doing it at.
Um also, um
>> well, my expectation, Baron, is it would
be measured, you know, during
the event time. So,
>> right. Okay. So you're
>> I know that noise levels from the road
will will vary during during the event
as well, but there's got to be some kind
of uh you know, it's easy to attenuate
the the uh music level. They all have
riostats on them, so you can
>> burn it down, but somebody's got to be
out there looking. and and we're putting
you know that's going to be uh one of
the things that's discussed in the in
the uh site plan is the method of doing
that
um
things like um
weddings, banquetss as such
was liability considered at all
such as you know people drinking, people
having a good time
um than going on the road. I mean, how
is that controlled?
>> Um
I didn't uh I didn't consider that. I uh
I guess Ryan, I can let you address it
if you want. The uh the liability from
you alcohol consumption.
>> Well, we don't serve alcohol. Um and we
also uh obviously had liability
insurance on the farm for people to come
and cut a tree with a saw. Um so we
carry our liability insurance but again
is that you know is that a town concern?
Um other than having proper insurance
>> I did not consider that a town concern.
you know, we we talked about that with
other things and uh you know went that
way even
even when we were discussing liability
over at the pickle ball courts and so uh
I figured you know Ryan is a private
property owner he's got to bear that
responsibility on his own.
>> Okay.
Um
see
I think that about covers it. Um
I did you know there there has been some
issue with smoke. I don't know if he
what's being burned back there but
sometime you know a lot of times there
there's there are occasions when there's
a lot of smoke.
Will that be going on often?
Uh I hear
>> smoke. Yeah.
>> You have the bonfires or something
maybe?
>> Oh yeah. We have blue burns
or wood and a huge enclosed
>> uh fire pit. And then I also have small
little fire pits. Um there's a gas one
and that's just ambiance and a small
little one that has covers on it for uh
you know uh plus you know for the warmth
if it gets later in the season but okay
>> um we do burn Christmas trees you know
say we cut a Christmas tree down we burn
those um but that's not that time that's
during the day
stuff like that
Okay.
>> Anything else, Baron?
>> I think that's it. Thank you.
>> Okay. Thank you very much.
I uh trying to see uh up there on the
screen that those are all the people
that I
>> Clark see I see Jonnell up there and I
think she's here for the POC discussion.
Um, so, uh,
at that point,
>> John,
>> John, this is Katherine Hutchinson. I
don't know whether you see me or not,
but I'm here.
>> I see your name now. Yeah, I didn't see
it before. Thank you for chiming in. Go
ahead, Katherine.
>> Yes. Um, first let me just say that
primarily what I have to say addresses
the fact that this proposal, these
proposed regulations cover the whole
town and not just Mr. Fitch's and that's
been pointed out previously in the
discussion.
But the fact is is that
I know when he filed his application it
was for 11 Bunker Hill Road. However,
these proposed regulations cover the
whole town as as just was pre excuse me
previously mentioned.
Also, I want to say at the beginning,
it's important to note that I recognize
that some of the concerns that I'm going
to raise could possibly address at least
to some extent by the references that
are made in the proposed regulations to
sections 23 4.21 to one of the zoning
regulations and also with regard to the
both amplified and non-amplified sound
by the language and subsections G and H
of the proposed regulations
say subject to modification by the
planning and zoning commission to
require a few hours. So um I'm saying
that excuse me with regard to beginning
that I recognize some of considerations
I'm going to put forth may be somewhat
dealt with by those provisions.
Uh the first thing has to do with the
fact that the public act 490 obviously
was an act to the legislature
and excuse me
excuse me under the statute the
definition of farmland means any tract
or tracks of land including woodland
wasteland used for agriculture
constituting a farm unit.
It is however the assessor I emphasize
that that determines what is a farm
under public act 490.
So, it's not going to be like the normal
regulations that planning and zoning
considers that it limits it to a zone or
whatever it appears applicable to what
they're doing that the planning and
zoning commission have no control over
what is designated as a farm under
public act 490. that is the properties
in town that would be subject to the
proposed uh ordinance
and they apply when I say that to any
property there's three or more acres
because of the three acre limit with
regard to the accessory use and the 10
for the non-acessory use. I recognize
that
um one of the existing 490 farms with 10
acres or more is on Hein Road directly
across the street from where school road
intersects with Hein Road. The old Percy
Cook property
is right across the street from the land
owned by the town of Andover
Primarily located on school road is what
I'm concerned about. Keeping in mind
that the firehouse and the town hall and
the community center and most important
school is located
within a very short distance um from the
already established public act 490 10
acre plus farm
in that area.
So that anything that is done during the
school hours and the school day would be
impacted by this
proposed ordinance.
Uh there are other properties with 10
acres and more along Keeper Road that
also I think the commission should be
aware of particularly with regard to
as you're headed out of Andover toward
Hebrin. um on the east or the left hand
side of the road that is basically an
RRD zone but it abuts the Andover Lake
district.
There are some already designated four
90 farms containing the 10 acres or more
on Heinurn Road, particularly in that
area,
as well as other pieces that are subject
to potentially being
um
for uh that given the 490 designation.
And that's true of anywhere in town
where there are properties. And I'm
concerned addressing myself now to the
10acre because the non agricultural use
has so much more in the way of extended
basically commercial operations that
would be possibly considered to fit in
that category.
So, the reason I'm bringing that up is
because
that
particular stretch backs up very closely
to the end of the Lake District.
Um, I think Scott mentioned he had a
copy of the zoning map in front of him.
Um, if if you were to hold that up, you
could probably see how close the
A excuse me, that the um farm the U lake
zone is and some of the streets in in
the lake area are u be impacted by any
of the activities that it were uh
anticipated or contemplated or permitted
by the current or the proposed
regulations.
They're equally um concerning is that
right across from the town from town
hall, the school, community center, etc.
There is a piece of property that
contains between four and five acres
that potentially has the
um ability to apply for a accessory use
for 490 which rig and farm designation
which would
put them in the category of the
accessory use and not the non-acessory
but the uh term the agricultural use
which again still m has a certain amount
of noise and lighting um etc right
across from the school and the the town
office building. It's not yet but
potentially but keep in mind
490 designation by the assessor is a
very fluid thing. Anybody can apply at
any time. So there is that
consideration.
There's a large tract of land on Route 6
directly across from the library in the
church and close to the river homes that
has also has the potential of being
developed into a farm. Used to be the
farm as a matter of fact and be given
boarding designation.
There's another large tract of land on
Long Hill Road immediately adjacent to
the church behind the church across the
street from the library in Hop River
Homes that also has that potential and
that's the one that runs completely
along
straight out to Bunker Hill Road.
So again, the potential off another one
off Bunker Hill Road as well.
Um
under the new version of the I'm again
concerning myself with the amplified f
uh sound etc.
Even in the
3 acre the ex the um that are not that
are considered to be the minor impact is
submitted victory are still going to be
amplified sounds and lice and people
coming and going and traffic and etc. So
with the agriculture accessory uses
there's also some um impact on the
neighbors and because they're smaller
it's submitted that that impact is going
to be felt much more uh closely by the
neighbors because of the proximity to
what's going on or potential proximity
to what's going on.
also concerned
about the the hours that have already
been mentioned um
going on till possibly 11:00 at night on
Friday, Saturdays if you don't have
amplified sound, but that's amplified
sound. Um maybe it's just me, but I've
heard lots of uh
m bands playing, etc. that make pretty
significant amount of noise even though
there's no amplification.
And you also again have that
consideration that I mentioned a minute
ago of the traffic and the people
talking and yelling and perhaps whatever
uh might be accompany everybody having a
good time at a concert kind of a thing.
Um,
the other thing that concerns me is and
is the Sunday morning for amplified
sound starting at 10:00.
And I noticed that all other days of the
week except Friday uh except Saturday,
they start at 12:00.
So
the church generally runs between 10:00
and 11:00 and it um suggest it
you consider modifying those hours at
least to start at noon time. Um
so it would run like all the other days
except Friday and Saturday to run from
noon time to 8:00 at night
again.
I suggest that we have to look at the
town as a whole and the impact upon what
planning and zoning does with this this
application or these regs as they are
submitted uh would have and potentially
have on the town of Andover. I
respectfully submit would probably be
one of the most significant things that
the commission did with regard to all
over impact upon the town as a whole.
If anybody has any questions they'd like
to ask me about what I said, I'd be
happy to address them.
And again, my disclaimer is I recognize
that some of these can possibly be
addressed by
the incorporation, which I think was a
good idea of sections 234.21 21 of the
zoning regulations and also that
language contained in G&H with regard to
subject to modification by the planning
and zoning commission to require a few
hours.
Thank you.
>> Okay. Thank you, Catherine. Is there
anybody else who's attending virtually
that has not had a chance to uh comment
at this point?
Okay, Bob, your turn. Okay, leave them
out there so the thing can hear me
better. Um,
I'm going to steal a little of of Ryan's
thunder here. Um, since the last
meeting, at the last live event that we
had, uh, Ryan and I drove around the
neighborhood because we wanted to get an
idea since so much has been discussed
about the sound in various places and
that's been really the the the primary
push behind all of this. Uh, we drove up
and down um, Bear Swamp Road. We also
went along route six and along Longill.
He has a SPL meter. I have the app in my
phone. and we took some some
measurements. The results were very
interesting, I have to say. Along um
um Bear Swamp Road, for the most part,
you could not hear the the amplified
music um because the crickets and cicas
and tree frogs and everything else were
way too loud. Um they would add and flow
and occasionally you would hear some
some musical notes drifting through. The
one thing that totally blocked out any
sound, at least up up in that part of of
town, were overhead airplanes. And I'm
not talking about the Air National
Guard, the C130s that come through at
treetop. I'm talking about commercial
airlines 15,000 ft up. They make a
surprisingly large amount of granted,
it's white noise. It's not structured
like music. And similarly, you know,
along Route 6, it can be very quiet and
it can be very loud. you're talking
about 80 85 dB just with cars going
best. Um and that's you know that's
almost power tool loud at at that point.
So it was it was a real eye opener. Um
just how much it can vary. And I have to
say it makes me kind of like even more
the the language that you have the
background, you know, not to exceed the
background level at the property line
because the background level varies with
place and time and circumstances. And it
may work to the detriment of the fellow
who lives on Route 6 because the
background level there is a lot higher
than the background level along along
Bear Swan. And um like Patrick uh noted
um the general rule from the TE is 5dB
above the background level um in various
places. That's what's permitted. And
that of course excludes things like
construction, you know, where you know
explicitly you can you can be allowed.
If you couldn't then nothing could ever
be built. So, I I just wanted to throw
that in that, you know, there is there's
the objective side of this that the
neighbors are coming forward and saying
it spooks my horses or or whatever. I
don't want to listen to the music. The
subjective, excuse me, but there are the
these objective measurements. This is
really fundamentally a technical issue.
And as such, it's no different than a
boundary line dispute or a setback or
any of the other things where you can
get a subject matter expert and you can
get measurement equipment and you can
resolve things and there's an existing
uh an existing base of knowledge so to
speak and and just a little digression
here and Jed you you actually brought it
up. I didn't want to say it, but you
brought it up, so I'm going to follow up
on it, which is that this process has
kind of gone backwards in a lot of ways.
Because it started with complaints, I
would have thought that either the
commission or the complaintants would
have been that the the burden of proof,
the evidence would have rested on them.
you know, if you're complaining about
sound, then come forward with a video or
with measurements or something to
substantiate what you're saying because
this is a technical issue as well as a
subjective issue. And I, you know, we
call this a public hearing, but you
don't have the burden that uh a proper
civil proceeding has, you know, where
there's an evidentiary process or
criminal proceeding has where you
actually have to have evidentiary
hearings. But it would have been nice
and I think if this kind of thing comes
up before the commission in in the
future it behooves you to try to to
follow that kind of a process. I think
that that the person who comes forward
it really you know it's kind of on them
to to persecute this prosecute this to
push it forward and not not the you know
the person who is uh affected by it. So
I just I wanted to throw that in there.
Let me let me address that for just a
minute because back uh
>> you know back in the day when you were
on the commission and John Benny was
here as zoning enforcement officer.
>> I remember the agony that we went
through on lighting regulations
>> and you know we got to uh uh make your
your jelly 60 W light bulb illegal,
right? Um but but the reason we took
that on at least at the time that's what
I use as a model was people were coming
to complain to John that uh about the
lights shining in her property and so
John went out and we worked uh as a
zoning commission to try and and create
a regulation that would allow him to go
out and enforce something later on.
I definitely did not want to touch this
regulation with a 10-ft pole. That's
why, you know, it was my my goal in life
was to get Brian and the neighbors to
resolve the difference, make a
compromise so that we didn't have to
write this because I know nobody's going
to be happy with the way it comes out.
You know, everybody's going to not like
something that's in there and I didn't
want to get in there at all. But we
couldn't do that. We couldn't figure out
a compromise. And so I'm put in the
position of having to come up with the
compromised form. I don't like doing
that. That's not the way it's supposed
to be done, but I'll take that on and
run with it. But I didn't want to I did
not want to regulate this activity at
all. Well, I'm glad you brought up the
the dark sky lighting thing as well as
say the the uh late runoff regulations.
That's another thing that I think falls
within the same the same uh umbrella of
highly technical subjects. But on both
of those we did have the luxury of this
has been done in a lot of places. You
know there's a real huge body of
knowledge on it. And uh
so you know it's it it's interesting. It
it's reassuring that you're thinking of
the same things that that that I am when
we're looking at this. Um
>> well this is new. You know, I I read a
lot of articles in the uh the paper
about the other towns agonizing over
trying to come up with acceptable that
both support the guy who wants to do it
and protects the neighbors who live next
to it.
>> Yeah. Well, so while we're talking about
that, and I'm going to go back to
something that I said the the last time,
which was we have two or three neighbors
who've complained about this. We've had
20 or more people who have entered
public testimony here for it. And so I
have to I really have to ask how much is
this an actual issue and the
measurements that I made would argue
that the complaints are not credible.
Okay. Since you put that there, I'll get
into the record. When you made that
comment about the vast majority of the
people that have attended spoke in favor
of the concerts, the vast majority of
that vast majority did not live next to
the farm. Bradley, there were there were
way more people expressing concerns over
the noise level than I thought there
would be hit at the meeting. And so, you
know, I have to listen to that as well.
>> Absolutely. Absolutely. Um I wanted to
just mention um Kevin's observation
about um the distance to the property
line and and considering that I think
that the language talking about shall
not exceed the background level that the
property line uh kind of makes the
notion of where the performance is
happening relative to the property line
superfluous. You know what matters isn't
distance, it's sound. It might we'll
we'll deliberate that when we get there.
>> Yeah. Okay. Um I brought this up before.
I'm going to bring it up again. This
past Friday, we had a lovely event here.
Well, 100 ft away at the town gazebo
with amplified sound. I walked across
the street and made sound pressure
measurements with my phone. 75 78 80 dB
loud. Okay. If this is passed, it needs
to address amplified sound everywhere.
Otherwise, it's selective prosecution.
Persecution. I I I don't know the right
word. It's selective enforcement. And
you're going to run into problems.
Somebody is going to say, "This isn't
right. Um why are we applying this to
farms and not explicitly elsewhere? Why
are we not applying it to the church
that decides to have an outdoor service
on, you know, Easter Sunday morning and
has a guitar with a little box
amplifier? I mean, this this could blow
up. I understand you're not wanting to
uh um not wanting to touch this and and
illustrating other reasons why. Um
>> Okay. For and for the record, how often
does the town have a concert out there?
three times each summer they've done it.
I think it's only two this year because
it rained out once. Okay. He got rained
out a few times also. So um this you
know I I look at what the town's doing
is a similar thing to uh you know
somebody who decides that their kids get
married and they're having a party in
the backyard. That's a very infrequent
thing and and you tolerate that a little
more. And again, we we've got to be uh
you've got to be
we can't regulate everything.
I agree. You can't regulate everything.
Um last time I spoke, I called myself a
libertarian in the sense of Thomas
Jefferson and liking a limited
government. I'm going to go one step
further here and I'm going to call
myself, you're going to love this pitch,
a conservative
in that
we shouldn't pass laws or regulations
unless they are compelling. We shouldn't
change the status quo unless there are
good reason, not not just good reasons,
but compelling reasons. And so I would
have to say that on a large part of
these proposed regulations, I oppose
them. And I'll just go down
on record is saying that that's all I've
got. I oppose them, too.
>> Okay. I can do I wish we could have
compromised and and satisfied the people
who were making the complaints, but we
didn't do that.
>> It is within your prerogative to dork
these down.
Any
other
time?
>> Yeah, you probably don't hear about
that.
Thanks. Go ahead. I'll end it. Um, and I
know that, you know, there was concerns
on, you know, different farms and
different areas and it it seems like
we're we're projecting way too much of
what could happen as to, you know, what
is happening. Um there's been farms in
this town forever.
Um and you know it it shouldn't have
just took me one person to come and try
and do things. I'm sure there's not
going to be much else going on. But in
that in saying that I think of your plan
of having a site plan and a PMZ having
to approve it actually just eliminated
the concerns of what if in the future
because you do have control over that.
um you know so I think that you know I
know we spent a lot of time on that but
I think in this writing um they need to
have a site plan and then there's also
special permits and if PNC can deny any
of that u the the concept of church um
that's a whole that's much correct to be
nice I go to church and there's 15
people at church in this town all right
and we end at 11:00 so to use that as an
example of why we shouldn't be having
music because church I believe there's
only one church in this town that runs
on Sunday.
>> There's three
>> that run on Sunday.
>> I don't that happened on the same
>> and um there's not I mean I don't think
we should stop that for 15 people. Um
the other thing would be what Bob talked
about too is you know we want to be I
know we didn't want to get here. Um, and
I think he is right that uh we've done
the lab work of testing it and showing I
have it all on video. I have it all on
email that the music level
is a lot at at my at the complaint stone
house is a lot less than every single
car that drives by. And I have that we
went to Bears and we measured and again
we go into people's properties and go on
their deck um to see if but again there
was no music at a level that would even
be remotely um uh
worrisome. So I understand there are
issues um and there are people that are
going to complain u but we have to take
that as
you know wholeheartedly is there proof
is there a history of complaining on
many other things that are going on
around the area. Um I think that plays a
role too. The other thing I would ask is
I know we had complaints and we had some
positive. Is that public record? Is that
something that can be shared? It should
be shared. Um where the concerns are um
who formed the concerns, who supported
it. Um is that public record or is that
>> that is public record?
>> Is that something we can be provided so
that we can
>> It's on the video recording.
>> What about emails and phone calls and
the town halls and stuff like that?
>> I don't have any uh of that. If there
was uh if there were comments provided
for the record with respect to this
application, they're in the folder on
the website.
>> Okay. Perfect. They're posted. Yes.
>> Perfect. Perfect. That's that's good.
And uh again, you know, I I was
contemplating on, you know, changing
times and we can certainly lower the
decimal at times. like this this weekend
we have one. It's a oneman acoustic and
it will be as low key as as possible and
it's a town that is actually coming to
sing. So this does bring people
together. Um I'm still up in the air if
this is something I'm going to continue
to do because it's really been one a
nightmare and two um it's not the most
profitable venture that I that I I've
chosen. I enjoy it. Um,
you know, but again, I don't know, you
know, if this town is the right place to
hold these. Uh, and again, like you
mentioned, I'm going to bring back uh,
you know, the other day we were sitting
at our house and I have a a fairly nice
house with a nice outside venue with a
pool and a p and a and a deck and a
patio and my neighbor was having a uh a
party eighth of a mile away down my
driveway.
I didn't would never one minute think of
calling and complaining about hearing
his music or the fireworks because
that's about being in a town and having
neighbors.
>> You know, I grew up in East Harford. I
moved here for a reason to get away from
the hostel and bustle. But at the same
time, I actually when we first moved
here, we were at our pool on our deck
with my little kids and I had three
airplanes
go right over my trees and hit my trees.
These trees were moving like crazy.
Again, this happens probably
once a week. I'm not going to call and
complain.
I have a dump right down the street that
people drive by every Saturday and every
Wednesday constantly trash falling out.
Not going to complain.
You know, that's where I think we need
to look at is what we're hearing for
complaints. Are they legitimate? Not
every complaint's legitimate. Not every,
like you said, not every uh support is
lives near us, but I think we need to
weigh those in. um and I don't think we
should restrict our community from being
building a community and um our
businesses
um progressing now. I don't know again
we that property that I own is
industrial. I know we're trying to go
this farm route. I don't know what
restrictions you have on the industrial
part. Um
basically that whole lot is industrial
zone. So I think we need to take that
into consideration too. These houses,
these people that bought properties on
Route Six, right with industrial zone
property right behind them.
What were they expecting?
>> They were expecting to live next to why
Christmas tree farms,
>> but it's induction.
>> Hey, you live on Route 6. 20T away from
Route 6.
>> That's it. That's all I got. Who has
that thought?
>> The u any last minute comments?
I know I have heard all I need to hear
from the public many many times over. I
got it. What we do with it? We'll decide
that when we get to deliberations.
Is there anybody on the commission who
is concerned about closing the public
hearing at this point?
Okay.
Hearing none.
It's 8:16. Public hearing is closed.
>> Thanks.
Okay.
State 16, I call the regular meeting in
order
for the roll call and seating of
alternates.
All regular members are here. All
alternate members are here. Thank you
very much uh for everybody attending. I
think this was an important uh important
meeting for you to all participate in.
Even though once we start deliberating
on the agro tourism only those people
seated on the commission will get to uh
discuss at that point
um
additions or changes to the agenda. Does
anybody have any additions or changes?
And I I had two that I was going to
propose.
One was going to be uh
new draft regulation changes, a bunch of
stuff that we talked about last time.
There was a couple that we didn't get
to. Um, I'm not going to put that on the
agenda tonight because of uh time, but I
would like to add to the agenda an
executive session for discussion of the
gravel bid and that would be
um right after approval of the minutes.
Um, so that would be the last thing that
that we do. I think uh there's some
activity taking place over there at the
gravel pin now and I think we need to to
be able to talk about that. So I will
make a motion to add new item 10
executive session for discussion of the
gravel pit second.
>> Thank you Patrick. Any discussion
hearing? None. I'll call for a vote.
Ann,
>> Scott,
>> hi.
>> Leanne,
>> I
>> Dr. Leanne,
>> then I Well, the motion passes 500.
Under old business, uh, first up is the
special permit application, Michael
Edward.
Um,
so the way it works, Mike, is the uh,
you know, the public hearing that we had
is done. You get to participate. No more
talk, we just talked about you. You were
certainly, you know, appeared to, uh,
hear all that goes on. And, uh, and what
always happens is there's about five
things that I wish we would have talked
about if
closed. We have to we have to vote on
what's on the record there. Right.
Um
I am hoping that uh all the members of
the commission saw the uh the draft
motion that Wayne sent out with the
agenda.
I will read the motion. If uh if we get
a second to it, then we can discuss it
in any more detail and uh act uh act
accordingly. At that point, I make a
motion to approve the home occupation
application of Michael Heckler with the
following conditions. That the property,
garage, and workshop shall not be used
for the storage, maintenance, or repair
of any vehicle or equipment not owned by
Michael Heckler, his immediate family,
or Heckler Land Services and Excavation.
that the vehicles and equipment
associated with Michael Heckler, Heckler
Land Services, and Excavation in this
home occupation shall be limited to the
following:
one six-heel dump truck, one pickup
truck, one Tesla automobile,
one mini excavator, one wood chipper,
and two 16 ft trailers.
Vehicles and equipment shall only be
replaced with an equivalent.
Michael Heckler and Heckler Land
Services and Excavation shall not store
any fuel on site except for fuel in the
vehicle and equipment internal fuel
tanks. No hazardous materials as defined
in Connecticut General Statute section
22A-15
shall be stored on site that prior to
commencing site work and construction of
plot plan drawn to 8 survey standards by
a license
depicting existing conditions and site
improvements be filed with the Andover
town clerk and building department with
these conditions of approvals printed on
the site
Do I have a second?
>> Thank you, Ann. We're seconding the
motion. Any discussion?
And I guess for the information of you,
if uh you know, if you did need to
change the you know the vehicles and
that that's a change to what we're
approving in the special permit, you
need to come back. Yeah. then uh and we
would deal with that depending upon the
the significance of the change. So not
that you can't, it's just that you can't
without coming talking and planning and
zoning again.
>> Um question.
>> Yep. U is the exception that if he's
replacing one with like that that's the
the third paragraph of this draft motion
does he he doesn't need to come get
another? It means replacement with a
license vehicle. It doesn't have to.
Okay. Just want to clarify
right there.
>> Okay. Thank you.
>> Yes, we
>> um in the minutes from last month, it
states that the um I have a bunch of
windows open. The applicant um had asked
for a waiver of the A2 survey. I think
I'm trying to bring it up now.
That was for the purposes of approving
this special permit.
>> I mean for for the way I understood it
that was um that was to wave the A2
survey for these deliberations. However,
it does not wave the A2 survey for the
ultimate site plan which I have
discussed with Mr. Heckler.
And Leanne, I think one of the concerns
that the applicant had, he's been
working on trying to get permission to
do this for a long time. Didn't want to
put a bunch of money into uh site plans
and that though he knew that we were
going to buy into it. The regulations
did allow us to wave that and we did. Um
but that doesn't mean that he can't
build what he wants to build without
having the sighting land and putting it
on file with the town. So that just
allows us to proceed tonight without
having that in ant.
>> Okay.
I'm not sure I followed that but okay.
>> Yeah. So
so there's there's some significant
costs associated with coming up with the
A2 survey and the uh the detail plans
for the the garage that he wants to
build.
Yep.
>> He he'd already been turned down twice
and and did he was hoping to avoid that
cost until he gets the green light that
says yes, you can do it and then he'll
put invest the rest of the money into
the uh engineering work that needs to be
done to support that.
>> Okay.
They do better that time.
>> Okay. So, it sounds like you and and
Wayne are I guess it answers my
question. You and Wayne are satisfied
about that.
>> Yes, we are.
>> I was just I was just looking at the way
it was worded in last month's minutes
and um
there was some mention in the minutes of
last month about um incorporating the
wetlands. It says, "Wetlands agent has
reviewed site plan and suggested
catchbas drywall on property as well as
silt fence during construction." So, um
I wonder if that might be covered under
Wayne's draft motion.
>> Um
>> which I'm now trying to find again
because there's so much stuff open. Um,
it it just talks there's some language
in there and I'm not seeing it right
now, but I think it might be covered in
in Wayne's motion anyway, so it's
probably not a big deal. Here's what I
remember about that, Le and that uh the
wetlands agent did review the uh draft
plan, if you will, that talked about uh
the nutrient allocation dry wells that
uh and I think you had a detention pond
uh as well in there, but but he took a
look at it again and the sanitation
god took a look at it again. So, we we
had those uh those two people come back
and they both gave their their green
light to the project.
>> Okay. Thanks.
>> Any other commission members have any
other questions or comments?
>> I can't remember if we asked you for an
input at this point uh or not. I think
uh
>> No, I'm good. And me and Joe have gone
over this uh quite extensively with Mr.
Heckler.
>> Okay.
>> Any other questions?
>> Hearing none, I'll call for a vote. Dan,
>> Scott,
>> Leanne,
>> I.
>> Peri.
>> And I vote I as well. Motion passes by
Z.
You're not done. Most people breathe a
sigh of relief and say, "Okay, you know,
I'll go do what I want." Nope. There's
some follow on stuff. Give it way. Make
sure that we're getting all the right
stuff filed down in that.
>> Good luck. It's a big hurdle at least.
>> Yeah, that's a big hurdle.
>> Now you get to hire the engineer.
>> Now I got to start paying one.
>> Okay.
Um,
next up is the uh
application of Pitch Family Farm
to amend the Andover zoning regulations.
Um,
so I didn't think uh there were any
questions that we wanted to uh
deliberate on the first page
based on, you know, both Scott and his
Hutchinson's
talk. That's why we put the 490 back
pack back back in there and the 10 acres
and the three acres is just to uh try
and minimize uh
the number of things.
>> John, put that back up on the screen.
>> Um yes, that would be good. Uh John, if
you could sure back screen there, that'd
be great.
>> Okay. This is again going back to going
back to version three.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. So, why don't you scroll down to
uh are there any uh
any any discussion by any commission
member on anything prior to where we get
into the hours?
Badger.
Well, um,
we are not going to be putting any
numbers on this except for the five dB
above background noise. Is that the
constant background noise? Is that the,
you know, the the highest recorded level
on route six? I mean, these are some
considerations I didn't even think about
before. Um,
>> so and also with the the states
got well, the state's DEC
levels, I had pulled them up. I didn't
mention the numbers during the public
hearing because we never talked about
numbers, but if this goes into being our
our new in a in a rule, you know, a
regulation, excuse me. um then I think
it's something that we should be
a little aware of. Um
where I have a tab up here because like
there's there's different like the 70 dB
is class C emitters. So that's
>> that's industrial and that's all the way
till 10 at night.
>> Um and that's a constant 70 dB received
from class C to a class D property. So
from commercial to commercial and then
there's different ranges from going from
from that to class B to class A. Class A
is the most restrictive residential
area. And since we've now recognized
that we don't have a traditional this is
just residential now and this is just
industrial or just farm. Um, I think
it's something we should just talk about
for a second so it doesn't doesn't turn
into a quagmire of oh well what's this
decibel and then turns into a a big
thing. I just want to address it quickly
because I know this the the the original
intent of the regulation was to expand
as use uh as usage or an you know
accessory use but I don't think we
really addressed the number right.
>> Yep. and what is the background limit
that we're going to say is the number in
our town because that sets precedent for
the rest of the town. I'm just putting
up there and
um
so I'm really hesitant at this point
because
if we have no sound ordinance per se, we
have to default to the state's
recommendations yet. I mean, if we
called for noise complaint
>> as far as somebody's
>> words we have in here.
>> Yeah.
>> Have been agreed to by our attorney.
>> Okay. All right. I just wanted to bring
it up one last time. And
>> Yep.
>> And so, but but you're in you're into
the bottom of the paragraph that talks
about hours. I look
>> Oh, the hours. I'm not I don't I'm not
concerned about the hours too much, but
>> paragraph eight. Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. And state is at 10 o'clock. We're
at 10 o'clock except for one day. I
think that that's
>> No, before we get to the hour, anything.
>> Let me go. Let me
>> Anything look on page one.
>> Got any comments on May one?
>> John, can you scroll back up to page
one?
>> Well, I'm sorry. What are you looking
for?
just
>> just to get away from where we were to
to
>> I don't think
so when we went through and I listened
to the comments from the commission and
everybody else
>> I heard no
recommendations for deliberation
on the first page.
So we okay turn the page over
and the first two paragraphs
on the second page didn't hear anything
about that either.
So now we get down to the hard it's
going to be now we're going to take
paragraph G. The hours of operation for
uses and events that do not include
amplified sound
>> shall not begin before 900 a.m. or
finish after 10 p.m. Sunday through
Thursday.
Friday and Saturdays are 9:00 a.m. to
11:00 p.m.
I was I was okay with both of those
numbers because I don't think they're
noisy events. I agree.
So 11:00, you know, sounds a little
late, but if somebody were to have a
wedding venue or something and they were
out there doing that, you know, and most
places that have wedding venues, uh,
they have it in a big tent and that
keeps the sound contained a little bit,
too. Um,
but I was I'm okay with it going and if
there's a special circumstance like
it's, you know, next to the church or
next to the school or whatever, um, you
know, we get to we get to make that
call.
>> Okay, sounds good.
>> Okay, so we're good with paragraph F or
G, depending upon which one you're
looking at there. Looks like
>> G.
>> Can't tell which one's crossed out. This
one's
>> it's G. It's new G.
>> Okay.
>> So, now we get down to the hard
and and to just discuss in generalities.
I thought the point about
the concert that we had here at the
gazebo
uh exceeding background levels neighbor
property line. Fair point. Um,
>> the other thing I would say, you know, I
would I would almost be willing to get
away with the sound measurements if we
cut it off at at a reasonable time where
people aren't trying to go to bed. I
think the the beef is people are trying
to sleep
>> and there's music out there that doesn't
put them to sleep.
>> Right. Gotcha. Yeah. You know,
everybody's got their own
good noise to put you to sleep, but uh
but I still think
the town standard of 9:00
great standard on the weekends. I think
8:00 during the week, you know, I heard
some discussion about some things that
went later. I looked online and uh I it
looked like you know out at the Carter
Hill farm
uh the bands are inside after dark. It's
different different set of
circumstances. So I'm very comfortable
with with a 9:00 for Taylor. You know
that can't be the end of the world to
just end. you know, he's talking about
events that he does on a Saturday night
and I think 8 o'clock during the week is
uh reasonable, too. I've gone to
concerts over in Marbor that uh you
know, they have them on Thursday nights
and it's from 6 to 8. I think that works
great. So,
I just think if I were living over
there, 10:00's too late, 9:00 I can live
with. Personally,
my thought is that people don't move to
Andover so that they can hear rock bands
outside. That's not what we move here
for. We move here number.
>> So,
>> I'm I'm willing to based on the fact
that the town and the lake have concerts
and I would expect the lake to limit to
9:00. The the one concert they had this
year, at least that that I heard, was an
afternoon thing. They were done by six.
It was on Saturday. Okay.
>> So,
Um, well, I'm good with that, too.
>> Okay.
>> All right. Thank you.
>> Well, so you're good with good with that
time. You know, we we're all in the
week. Nine weekends.
>> Nine week ends and and eight during the
week.
How about these?
So before you move on, what you're
proposing to do is change the hours in
line 57 from 10 p.m.
>> to 9:00 p.m. Is that what they're
>> Line 57 and Yeah. line 57
Fridays between 12 and 10. Saturday 10
to 10 and Sun and Okay. Just that
>> you want to change the tempm to 900 pm.
>> Just
>> so in line 57 the 10 goes to 9.
Saturday between 10:00 a.m. and 900 p.m.
or Sunday between 10:00 a.m. and 8:00
p.m. and between 12:00 p.m. and 8:00
p.m. on all other days. thing I probably
look at
I don't know what they're going on with
what they have going on but I was a
little concerned about you know not
allowing it to start till noon um but
>> I would say to that when they were
talking about churches I mean there is
this religious uh freedom
>> well our church
>> amendment to our constitution that
>> don't okay yeah
>> I mean are you going to hear it inside
the church.
>> This is my way of look looking at this
thing. We're not protecting the 25
people that he brought here. We're
protecting this three don't like it and
the 15 people that are in church.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> And the couple people that do
>> because if I was doing the same thing, I
would have bought from 50. But it's not
going to do any good because we're not
protecting those people are all for it
already. So we're not protecting them.
We're doing the complaint.
So Jed
>> Jed to clarify I'm sorry. Are you
changing both 10 o'clock hours to nine?
>> Yeah. Yes.
>> Both. Yeah. Yep. There you got you got
the second one. Yeah. 9.
That's at least for for discussion.
>> Right. Okay. I just want to make sure
that I'm I'm reflecting what you're
talking about.
>> Sunday between 10.
So
I would be happy to put
>> we got too many different you know I
would have been happy with weekends are
this week is this
>> but if we made uh we've got Friday a
little bit different because
well Saturday is a little bit different
because events can start early on
Saturday.
>> I got you. So, I'm I'm ready to have
Friday, Saturday, and all other days
between noon and and 8:00 p.m.
>> 8:00 p.m.
>> Yeah.
>> Subject to modification.
>> I believe the same thing that you're
saying. I don't think it's the sound.
It's the lateness.
>> It's the lateness. Yeah.
>> Right.
>> Yeah. That's why people don't give a
hoot about the Andover Sportsman Club.
You know, nobody's out there shooting at
10:00 at night.
>> That that bothers us.
>> Okay.
>> Our neighborhood, it's very annoying.
We're not even close to it. We're over a
mile away. Still hear that. It's like,
oh, they're that,
>> you know. So, here's I used to live in
Virginia Beach and we had naval aviation
at its finest flying around down there.
And the neighbors were all upset because
the Navy was flying these jets.
And the Navy told them, "H, we were
flying those jets long before you moved
here. You moved here knowing those jets
are flying. That's your problem. We need
to fly." Then uh then that was the end
of the discussion.
I
you know the landing and zoning doesn't
decide about the airplanes flying
overhead. Doesn't decide about the
fireworks which are already illegal. Um
we're we're talking about events on a
farm. We're not even talking about
somebody who's opening a wedding venue,
which you know the and when we first
started talking about this, I was not a
fan of uh all these non-aggricultural
related things. Brian was supposed to be
doing the farmers market all year. I
don't think that, you know, there
there's no farm related activity going
on. All he wants to do is have concerts.
And I understand his point of view, but
But when we were discussing lights over
at the soccer field, they were trying to
protect that one person who lived out
there that the soccer club wanted to
shine lights across the field right into
their house, you know. So
that's kind of where I am here. And uh
and should we
event shall remain within state decibel
limits?
>> Yeah, just get rid of that last thing
about me out there with my little meter
because I didn't, you know, I went out
there with my meter, too. And uh
>> what' you see?
>> What did I see? Well, I saw at uh at the
Stonehouse some pretty high levels when
the trucks would drove by there. You
know, ADB, you know, pretty much what
Bob was saying. Um
but the later at night, those became
fewer and fewer and the vehicles on the
road is a white noise kind of thing
where music is is different. You know,
it's harder to ignore music.
So, how was the decel level?
>> What's in it?
>> The decel level. What was it?
>> 80. When the when the cars and trucks
went by, you know, it was pretty high.
>> And what was it from their concert?
>> Um, they did not exceed 80,
>> you know. So, they were within in that
limit there.
>> The thing that I think is a fair point
>> is we need we should be
>> I'd like to be consistent with this in
what we expect to do.
>> That's fair.
So, if we were to just branch that,
>> I I would point out that the and Scott,
correct me if I'm wrong, in order the
town issues a permit to use the town
property to do events and stuff, right?
>> Mhm.
>> So, that's regulated by ordinance.
>> Um, not much.
>> That's not the noise.
>> No. Well, they still issue a permit.
>> Okay. But we're we're asking this guy to
get a permit, too. you know special
permit which is even a bigger deal. So
>> okay
and then on on this here we where um
line 60 where events and activities
shall remain within state decibel
limits.
Um and then
uh line 62
sound be attenuated to the background
level to Patrick's point that kind of
conflicts with the state regulation
because the the state regulation
prescribes a specific decibel limit
whereas yeah whereas attenuated to
background level is
>> an on the-fly or or at that time type
type thing.
It's a measured thing at that time
and it could be above
>> when the trucks go by.
Um so again, you know, being out there
with my meter, you what I saw was
when it was very quiet, there was some
increase in sound due to the music at
times.
Not a lot, but a little bit, but it was
certainly when when the traffic was
headed down the road, there was no uh
no increase in background at that point.
Do you do you remember just you know
this isn't like a you know really
definitive but was it music less than 55
when there was no trucks driving by
>> and and you know
>> so
here's the two standards I know
>> heavy traffic on route six
>> 80 dB gotcha
>> I can get my meter out when I walk at 5
in the morning around the lake and
there's nobody but those crickets is 40.
>> Right.
>> So that's that's the range in there.
>> Okay.
>> And
in a stage 80
>> no
>> no stage 70.
>> Yeah.
>> So you know but
>> but that's not zoning.
This is, you know, and if we wanted, if
the county wanted to create noise
orders, you know, the the barking dogs
probably nuts, you know, I don't like
your Everybody's got a barking dog
anymore,
>> right?
>> We all agree that we don't really not
worried about the sound.
We're worried about going to sleep.
>> Yeah, we're worried about going to
sleep.
So, are we happy with crossing that last
sentence out or should we expect the
town to do something? Or do we say
that the town is more in line to a
neighbor having a noisy party once the
blue moon and uh we're we're going to
live with that.
I I'll just say this. My read of the
last line as a zoning agent means that
the applicant has to include some
information as to how they plan on
attenuating the noise levels.
>> Yeah.
>> And it doesn't necessarily mean they
have to do a noise study and they don't
have to remove all the sound,
>> right? So,
>> I mean, that's how I read it. Just says
shall include sound attenuation details
as
>> well. Yeah. I I was looking at the wrong
last sentence there. So
>> they could claim that the trees
>> events and activities shall remain
within state decel limits and may
include amplified sound if the applicant
demonstrate the commission of the sound
via distance structures landscape. He's
>> to me to me that's part of the
attenuation details.
Um I don't want to muddy the water here,
but that's how I kind of read that last
line.
>> No, I I got you. I I'm now uh with you
there. So, I tried to marry what I could
measure on my meter and what uh
I thought it was reasonable that we kept
the state decel limit thing in there.
I don't know if if the commission during
its um special permit process can uh ask
for a sound study
to be included.
>> Okay. Well, let me uh
>> I I know that happens uh more with bars
and things like that that are
>> Yeah, I don't think I'm not in favor of
that one.
>> Okay. So Jet Jet, if I might.
>> Yeah, go ahead, Jen.
>> So I I maybe this would I I I can square
the circle here if you could leave it.
So events in activity shall remain
within state decibel limits and may
include amplified sound if the applicant
can demonstrate to the commission that
sound via distance, structures, and
landscaping
um can, you know, can be attenuated to
respect those limits.
>> Okay. Yep. That's that's it. And what
what I'd like to do is hold the rest of
the discussion on this in obeyance. Um
I'd like to be able to think about that
between now and the next meeting to you
know that that's really the crux to the
whole thing. And uh the you know I would
like to have consistency between
between the down at the gazebo and what
we expect of the agriculture.
Not that not that it absolutely needs to
be, but it ought to be. You know, seems
it's good for one, good for the other.
And uh
except that this is specific to PA490
property and the gazebo is not
>> right. Yeah. But okay, so somebody
should ask me, if somebody were to ask
me, why can the town do this, but this
guy can't
>> it would be nice to avoid having that
question asked.
>> And again, I think,
you know, we're not going to have
concerts every day.
uh part of the part of the special
permit is going to be how often it
happens, but I think the issue is more
when it's done, not how loud it is when
you're not trying to go to sleep. But
again, that's that's my thought. I'm
trying to
or the town could do this by ordinance.
Yeah, I don't know. But I don't want to
spend any more time on that one. I want
to sleep on that before we get there.
But, you know, so we're we're coming
through.
>> What about events that are non amplified
sounds that says 11 minutes long?
>> Yeah. What about it? Do you want to
leave? Yeah, that's that sounds
>> I mean, if you have a wedding party,
sometimes it'll be louder than
>> Well, we're not
This is why I didn't want to have to try
and regulate this. You know, it there's
too many different things that are all
going on. And this is why I put for one
year. Now, we can we can specify that
this regulation will be reviewed in a
year and but any regulation could be
reviewed and changed anytime we want.
But but it forces us to go back and take
a look at are we happy with what we got?
As long as there's no pending
application,
>> I think it would be I think it would be
good to consider moving the
non-amplified
item from 11:00 p.m. to 10 p.m. for a
couple of reasons.
>> Okay. You said there was a couple of
reasons, Leanne.
>> Uh yes. One is that um in the earlier
versions of this um an even earlier time
and I
don't remember at the time if we made a
distinction between amplified and
non-amplified but um
10:00 seemed to be acceptable um
especially as opposed to something even
earlier than 10:00 for a you know a
mandatory closing time. Um 10 o'clock
seemed to be okay with the applicant and
11 o'clock seems to be in my opinion
really pushing it which brings up the
other point I was going to make which I
raised earlier about the um item has
been taken out so far out of this
version about not allowing for activity
setting up and and taking down which is
what you'd be doing at between 9 and
11:00 at night. So there'd still be some
volume associated with that. As I said
earlier, just people talking back and
forth and car doors slamming, etc. So
the way it stands right now, that would
be added on to the 11:00 time.
>> Could be. Yeah, could be. Um, so my my
thought was, Leanne, that we would put
that down under the paragraph on site
plan and put, you know,
as a required item, the uh
plan for set up and taken down.
So, we get to get to hear when that's
going to be.
>> Okay. And that brings up another
question which I think somebody brought
up in the last month or two. So, I don't
think it was my question, but somebody
asked
I think I don't know who, but anyway,
whether or not the um let's see, any
applicant, whether it's Mr. Fitch or
not, would have to come in for um a
review every time they held an event, or
would there be a site plan review that
would apply to a calendar that somebody
submitted?
it. So I the way I envision it is that
the applicant gives us a list of things
they want to do. Just like the applicant
for the home business, we had a list of
equipment he has and as long as he does
see what's on that list, he's good to
go. if he wants to uh start exceeding
the number of events or uh you know he's
making arrangements for more people or
whatever, he has to come back in and
have a modification with the site plan.
So, this is not
>> this is not something that somebody'd
have to do for every every event unless
he were
um
interrupting town traffic, you know, so
that we needed to look about getting the
state trooper out there to direct
traffic someplace or something like
that. That's the purpose of that town
permit is to uh make sure that the town
is properly taken care of.
Okay. So, that brings me back to
suggesting that the 10 the 11:00 for the
non-amplified events be moved back to
10:00,
especially with this consideration.
>> And so, how about during the week,
Leanne? Uh, would you want that at 9:00
or you good at 10:00 on that through the
week, too?
>> Uh, let me see. I'm reading it. If we do
10:00 the whole bit, then you know all
the hours are the same. There's no
difference. It could just be you know
won't begin before 9 and
will be or finish after 10.
>> So you're asking now what I think about
during the week.
>> Yeah.
>> How long should we go during a week?
Oh. Um, okay.
>> The answer is 10 o'clock. You know, I'm
I'm okay with that, too. I'm just
asking, uh, because you had some good
reasons for,
>> John, was in your pancreas order.
>> Why did you rehearsal that TV where
somebody runs over and pulls the plug?
>> Sorry about that. I just got an alert
and it was curious. Okay, thanks.
Right.
>> But I agree with uh you know
I'm certainly okay with reducing that
11:00 to 10:00.
>> We can in
in wood
>> we can always
>> I think
>> we can always we can always change it to
be more liberal later. Once we start, we
can't, you know, once we approve
somebody's permit under these
regulations, it's good to go. And so,
uh, we can't crank down on it. So, I
would like to start out a little bit
more conservative
and relax after it's going well as
opposed to try to crank it back because
once we approve permit, can't crank it
back. We've approved it. still
>> I I suppose um 10:00 during the week is
okay as long as we get rid of the 11:00
which again seems quite late.
>> I still don't understand where the part
about the setup and takeown is going to
be accounted for.
>> Okay. Um
>> so
>> is that part of the site I mean if it's
part of the site plan review? So far
we're not saying that
>> right? We we did not say that yet. We
haven't got down that far, but that's
where we'll go.
>> So, you can strike Sunday through Sunday
through Thursday, Friday, and Saturday
hours of operation 9 to 11. You can
strike. You want to strike that whole
line.
>> Yep.
>> Well, I thought we were just changing
11:00 to 10:00.
Well, so if you read the first sentence
there, the hours of operation for uses
or events that did not include amplified
sound shall not begin before 9:00 a.m.
or finish after 10 p.m. Period.
>> We're not talking about
>> I see. Okay. So, we can still visit the
the point I was making a couple of times
about the takeown time and possible
>> noise. And I have one more. I have one
more question about the next paragraph.
Um I'm just I'm just looking at the
hours. This is G and H.
>> Um why is it
the the start time now as opposed to the
end time? Why is the start time for
Saturday and Sunday at 10:00 a.m.? This
is under amplified sound may be allowed
on Fridays between 12:00 p.m. and now
we're saying 900 p.m. Saturday between
10:00 a.m. or Sunday between 10:00 a.m.
etc. So why um do we know why the
proposal is for two hours earlier than
it is during the week?
>> My thought was that people are out
willing to do events early on Saturday
morning.
And so he came
>> Saturday. How about Sunday?
>> Saturday.
>> Sunday.
>> Sunday. You know,
>> I'm I see both sides on that. Uh I uh
what?
>> Okay. Yeah. Well, I I yeah, I just I
just wanted to bring that up because
hopefully with the I'll call them
safeguards, if you agree that that's a
good term, that are built in about the
decibel level and the um you know, the
commission has the ability to, you know,
there's the one-year trial period. Um
the commission has the ability, which I
guess we're still discussing, to modify
some of this. So, I guess it's okay. I
was just looking to see if there was a
particular reason for the Saturday and
Sunday being two hours earlier, but I it
looks like we still have some leeway.
>> And and I guess, you know, thinking
about it here for a couple of minutes,
I'm okay with the Sunday being 10:00
a.m. If we're in the vicinity of a
church or something like that and we
want to reduce those hours, we have the
uh we have the authority to do that
under that special need. we have to make
consideration is it going to interfere
with the uh religious services going on
and if it does then we might want to
consider that and uh make it start after
I don't know it gives us a chance but it
doesn't
it doesn't prevent us if uh you're out
in the middle of nowhere to start at
10:00 matter of fact maybe it should be
9:00 on Sunday too there's an awful lot
of people that aren't spending their
Sunday mornings in church or doing other
things. But uh again, we can change that
later. I I'm okay starting it. But but
we have the authority with a special
permit to uh
to reduce that and that would be a that
would be a valid consideration for why
you might want to do that. Same as you
know, an event that we're taking place
right next to the school. School's in
session. We probably don't want to, you
know, let a bunch of noise going on out
there. School's going. as applicant
based.
>> Yeah, that we we take a look at that
then and that's consistent with what the
words in there tell us.
>> Okay. As long as we have that
flexibility as we go along. And again,
as you just alluded to, this doesn't
just apply to um you know, the this
applicant now. This would apply anywhere
in town.
>> Yeah.
Okay.
>> Thanks.
So, I'm going to sleep on that last
little bit on paragraph H and we'll talk
about that next one.
>> So, after we're done, John will make
these changes and we'll we'll discuss a
version four at the next meeting. Is
that Yeah.
>> paragraph on lighting. Anybody got any
uh issues with the paragraph on
lighting?
stuff for safety. Brett
Camp
is for safety, right?
>> So,
>> yeah, he hasn't expressed any
uh
to add big show lighting. So, that's
your, you know, we're just we're just
addressing safety lighting, right? Yeah.
>> Enough to keep it safe. That's it. So,
but we don't want to start
But again, I'm only going with what I
seen there.
>> I like that. But it's just for
>> big spotlights out there. Again,
>> well, he has not expressed any wants to
bad show lighting or big lights, so
which is good.
>> Costly,
>> huh?
>> That's costly.
>> Well, that's true, too. Yeah.
>> Yeah.
But
bam.
>> Yeah. Moving out of the site plan.
This is where we will include
the the narrative description
of proposed events and activities
including
schedule for setup and tear down.
So, you want to put those words in
there?
>> I think so. Yeah.
>> So, I'm sorry, Jed. You want the wording
including setup
>> and and tear down.
So it'll be yeah right where you first
have your first underline a narrative
description events and activities
including schedule for setup and
narrative.
>> Okay,
I'm going to have to sketch that in. I I
can't type on this but yeah. Okay.
>> Okay, I got you. I uh I will
annotate that.
Actually
it's kind of under activities
but
including setup and ter
actually lines
it's almost redundant those two lines
>> it is but you know I did take it out I
had second thoughts about that. Uh we
there's probably uh you know other
things
that would be helpful for the commission
in making its determination
that we don't have in that paragraph.
And uh but as we look at the
application, we can ask questions and
and ask them.
Any other issues on the site?
So one of the things that
might be worth talking about here is
we were talking about agric. So the
agriculturally related events with a
site plan review
essentially we have none of this
latitude that we do with special permit.
um
if it comes in and meets the time
requirements, it's good to go. Kind of
like what we saw in Bill Dollar General,
it was under the uh the size limit put
in our regulations and uh the uh
as long as as they met our regulations,
we we couldn't couldn't change it,
couldn't turn it down.
But with special permits you can't
just point out that we added back in and
that was one of the things that uh that
we said we were going to talk about here
is
if that uh if we want
the air
I think we leave the words the way it is
there. We'll find out uh if we you know
normally through the course of uh
working with the guy we we uh you know
we get all the information we need might
not be able to force him to do anything
but I can't figure out what that might
be at this point. And again, you know, a
version ago, we didn't have any site
plan review for those things. We were
just going to give the guy a pass. So, I
uh I think we've significantly upgraded
from that. Uh and I'm willing to leave
that as it is for now.
If we get bit, we'll change it.
And then on the uh
the last page,
non-aggriculture accessory permit
approval shall be issued. Should we
do we want to include the agricultural
in that one-year thing?
Any thoughts?
Just want to voice my opposition to
regulating staples having horse shows.
run by again.
>> I just want to voice my opposition to
regulating stables having horse shows
or riding events or things like that.
>> Okay. But you know, still if a guy's
having a horse show, don't we
don't we have a responsibility to make
sure we got parking,
sanitary facilities, all that kind of
stuff. If it becomes an issue like
parking on the town road and it's
causing a problem, that's a law
enforcement issue.
>> I think, you know, there's
>> Well, isn't a horse show on at a horse
>> at a horse?
>> That's already an allowed usage. We
don't need to even
>> It's regulated under this this reg.
>> But that's that's not an accessory
special. That would be an actual That's
right. usage spell,
>> right? it would retire a a permit
for for the horse.
>> So
I don't understand why it would be I'm
just if you could clarify.
>> Yeah. So I don't know.
>> Wouldn't wouldn't the number of
participants dictate the the the level
of uh permit required?
I mean, because if you have if you have,
you know, if you you run a horse farm
and you have a few people over,
that that's one thing. If you have a
horse farm and you're hosting 25,000
people,
that's a that's still a horse show. It's
just a different magnitude that the the
town would have some interest in,
wouldn't it?
>> Wow.
>> I think isn't that covered under the
state of Connecticut allowed as usage of
agricultural land already? No, the state
in any
>> No, the state the state has a a non a
non-nuisance policy about agriculture,
but that's that's about the agriculture
itself. When you're bringing people in
cars, that's that's ceases to be
strictly agriculture.
>> Do we have any horse farms in Andover
that have a significant number of
horses?
But I thought the state just did the uh
the newest one was
the farms are exempt from their own if
it's actual has to do with their farm if
it's educational or part of their
farming those are already exempted town
permits and all that regular rules. So
that is, you know,
>> the state regulation on agg on on what
is farming and whatnot specifically
states
>> that uh it does not override local
zoning.
>> Okay. But
>> I can testify to that because I worked
for the Department of Agriculture for 35
years.
>> Do we need to start so
>> adding that in? I mean I don't I
>> I'm just saying that if you go right
back to the very first definition.
>> Okay. Um, it specifically says Porsche
owners.
>> Oh, it does. I did not see that. Thanks
for pointing out.
>> It doesn't make special
access for use.
>> Well, Wayne doesn't need to go away.
>> So, we're allowed
to regulate,
>> but I I will defer to
I'm okay with getting a site plan and
showing where is the the thing going to
be and where are you going to park and
all that kind of stuff.
>> Okay.
All right, that's it. I said it.
>> What do you think next guy? You want the
agricultural
accessory uses be trial period?
>> Can we just say agricultural and
non-aggricultural?
>> We can.
So, we're back down at the bottom. John
to him.
>> But we can't say agricultural special
permits,
>> but we can say agricultural
non-aggricultural site plan.
>> No, can't do that either.
>> You can say accessory special permit.
>> Well, go back up to the definition,
John. See what is the definition?
It's agricultural accessory use and
non-aggricultural accessory use.
So now go back down to the bottom.
I think the words you want are
agricultural accessory use
and nonaggriculture accessory special
permit. approval shall
be issued for trial period for one year.
>> Okay. Yeah. I agree with you. So that
starts out saying agricultural
and non-aggricultural accession permit
approval shall be for a trial period of
one here.
>> Nice.
>> Now, again, with the site plan, if they
if they comply with our rules,
we don't have any latitude in that.
And that $50 fee will apply to both
permits.
>> It'll be what?
>> And the $50 fee, the very last line.
>> Yeah.
>> Will apply to both permits. Agricultural
accessory use. Okay.
>> And non agriculture access.
>> Just Yeah. Just saying that's the way
it's constructed now. Okay.
Not that we have a way of collecting it.
>> I think I'd like to quit put there for
tonight. You know, if if John you tweak
that up the way we did,
we'll we'll get a chance to review it
and we'll continue deliberations
at the next meeting.
But I think we've had a chance to talk
about all the issues
and I think we've got consensus on what
it ought to be and
I just keep up with a question when
talking about agricultural accessory
uses.
It seems like you said the horse farm
and horse show are so close to the same
thing. It's like how can that be an
accessory? What about a dairy farm that
sells ice cream? Is that an accessory
use then?
>> Selling ice cream is not agriculture.
>> Okay. Well, so it's the the the the
major difference and I think the thing
that we're trying to get uh our arms
around is when the the basic
agricultural use begins to engage with
the public for one reason or another and
and bring people to the property,
generating traffic, generating noise,
generating waste, generating the all
these things that are above and beyond
standard agricultural uses, which is
cultivation of the land and you know
producing far food and fiber.
You know, bringing people in for a horse
show
is is, you know, it it is not about
raising the horses. It is about engaging
the public in in you know, an
agriculturally related thing, but it's
not agriculture.
That's what we're trying to get our arms
around. When it when it becomes it's,
you know, you could you could have
Well, I don't I've made my point.
>> I see what it is. Thank you.
And again, not perfect. Um, better than
our sign regulations,
but
far from perfect. So, okay. Um,
everybody okay with uh, you know, we'll
hit it again for a little bit on the
next meeting, but I think we got through
all the issues. We got
99% of it hashed out. The the thing that
I got to think about the most is this
sound level question.
So 80 is our number. If if uh the town
is this 80 across the street, that's
going to be their number.
>> I don't I don't know. I don't like it. I
didn't want to write.
>> Well, you got it down to nine o'clock.
Yep. I give them 80.
>> Okay.
I'm going to move on to correspondence.
>> Oh,
the pool. The pool shred.
>> Say again.
>> The pool shed.
>> New business. Item B.
any business doesn't have that. Oh,
okay. So, here
>> and and and not to not to not to uh jump
back, Jed, but we blew completely past
the PCD discussion.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> Doesn't have any of that stuff on it.
>> I thought
maybe this is what you handed me when we
were
>> Yes,
thanks. Let me let me look at the real
here.
>> Wow, there's more stuff on here than I
>> thought there
were.
>> You know what that's
>> You had one little business. I had one.
>> Yeah.
>> Doesn't say much better.
>> You asked me to put that on there, Jen.
>> Yeah, I know. Okay, so here's here's the
deal.
The whole program over at the elementary
school wants to put an 8 by12 shed
someplace
>> and we can pull up a drawing on the
screen if you want to see it.
>> Um, don't don't
>> even want to see it. Right.
>> So, my concern, my my feeling is that
the 8 by12 shed is smaller than the
gazeos that we put over in the uh what's
the name of place down the road there?
The golf course. No, the uh
special service the the uh
network.
>> Network. Yeah. So when we we did that we
we said that that we had two options. If
it's
the commission made by resolution permit
the zoning enforcement officer to
authorize minor non-substantial
deviations from an approved special
permit
or substantial changes to the special
permit and variances shall be treated as
new applications for approval and shall
be submitted and acted upon in
accordance with these regulations. So
those are the two choices we have. We
can either let Wayne take a look at
where it's going to be and all the, you
know, the setback issues and all that
kind of stuff and authorize it or we can
ask for a new special permit to put the
shed in.
>> Plus, it's under 200 square ft.
>> Okay. Yep. It's it's always the CEO just
so so
>> I'm just looking at it like a shed like
any other shed.
>> I got you. So then I'm glad glad you
brought that up then. Uh so I would make
a motion
that we permit the zoning enforcement to
authorize minor nonsubstantial deviation
from the approved special permit for the
placement of the shed. I'll start.
>> Okay. Thank you, Scott. Any further
discussion on that?
>> Is it Do they know where that's going?
>> There's quite a basketball court. It's
here
>> information
playground they put out there. They have
a beautiful.
Okay. Break it out for us, Wayne.
You're not even going to see it. It's
behind the behind.
>> Okay. I was thinking the upper is upper
>> parking lot. There's not going to be
parking spots anyway. But yeah, if it's
behind somewhere
>> Yeah.
So there would be no
any other discussion
>> hearing none then I'll call for vote in
>> I
>> I vote I motion passes 52.
Okay.
Oh, Jessica is here.
>> Yep. Do you have any questions?
>> Oh, I'm sorry, Jessica. Did we make it
too easy for you?
>> So, what do I do next?
>> Go talk to Wayne.
>> You've already done it. You submitted
the the zoning application. So,
>> and then I did the Highland um thing
tonight that I was asked to do.
>> Right. Eastern Highlands got to weigh in
on it and I got to run it by Joe, the
wetlands agent, but it it all should be
uh
pretty easy from here.
>> Okay. So, you guys will be in contact
with me then.
>> Yep.
>> Thank you so much.
>> Well, and and if you had to wait through
two hours of stuff,
>> Yeah. I knew it was going to be pretty
easy. Didn't know you were there.
>> Yeah.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you. Thank you for coming.
>> Byebye.
>> Okay.
Um,
>> let's go back to the POC
Janelle said through all this stuff.
Well,
>> she wanted to she wanted to find out
more about my pancreas purchases. So,
that we kept her busy.
Um,
okay. So, uh, in brief and and yeah,
though my colleague Janal is is here and
and we appreciate her sitting through
this. Um, so where we are right now with
the PC is that we have written and
reviewed um all of the substantive
chapters to this point. Um, and we are
we are sort of nearing the nearing the
the point in which we're going to put
everything together into a a complete
draft uh to to send around in advance of
a public hearing. Um what we added uh
new over the over the last month is um a
summary of the survey responses uh which
I which I sent out and we can talk about
a little bit if you want and the
implementation matrix um that I think is
probably a little bit detailed to go
through this evening but I wanted to
call your attention to it. I just put it
up on the screen. It's fairly long. It's
13 pages. Um and this basically
represents there are there are six
substantive chapters that we that we
talked through uh quality of life,
affordable housing, natural resource
protection, economic development,
complete streets, and climate change and
resilience. Those six. And so each of
those six chapters, which again we
reviewed over the last six months or so,
um had action items uh assigned to them.
We have basically taken all of the
action items and let me make this a
little bit bigger so you can see the the
layout and approach here. Um is we have
taken each of the action items which is
the the first column on the left added
four additional columns. one for lead
entity. So basically whose job is this
action supporting entity who's supposed
to help time frame obviously when when
over the next decade should we begin
undertaking this and the four and the
fourth additional column is cost
estimate and I broke this down broadly
into order of magnitude cost one dollar
sign being less than 10,000 two dollar
signs being between 10 and 100,000 three
being between 100,000 and a million and
then four dollar signs being a million
Um
all of these things have been basically
filled in by me and my team based on you
know how we understood these these
elements to be. But um obviously the
very specific priority
is up to this commission u because you
are basically establishing the to-do
list for the community uh over the next
decade. Um so this is you know this
should be considered a draft. Obviously,
all the action items in the left column
we've already looked at, we've already
talked about. Um, but this this is
essentially, you know, in shorthand,
this is this is the to-do list from the
the PC. So, I'm I'm happy to answer
questions about the approach or if
there's some specific, you know,
quibbles people have, but I would ask
you to take a look at this over the next
couple of weeks and and send any any
thoughts or comments to me. Um the I'm
gonna Oh, I'll take this off the screen.
I can put it back in just a second, but
I I I want to sort of get through the
the big picture here.
Um the goal the overall goal was to look
at adopting this plan by the end of this
calendar year, which means December. Um,
we need to basically have the draft done
and in place two months ahead of the
public hearing so that we can send it
around to the office of policy and
management to the board of selectmen,
post it with the town clerk and and make
sure it's available as a full draft to
the public. Um, you know, it doesn't
have to be the final final layout with
all the pictures and and the, you know,
the final desktop publishing, but the
content should be all in place. Again,
we have basically all of the content in
place because we've sort of written the
chapters as we go. The question I have
for you is between today, tonight, and
the next meeting um in October, which
hopefully we can present to you the
complete document of of text. again, not
the final layout, but the the the the
plan itself, the document um for
basically
receipt and scheduling of a public
hearing. And my question for you is what
would be the preferred method for giving
you guys the chapters to take another
look at? Um, I could send it all as a
single package or if you'd like, we
could I could send you, you know, two
chapters a week over the next month so
you you have some bite-size uh
opportunity to kind of digest. Um, but
we're we're basically at the point where
we're going to be stitching it together
and giving it to you as a as a package
for receipt at your October meeting.
>> So, how many chapters were there? Was it
six? You said
>> there are six substantive chapters. Um I
forwarded uh on on Thursday or Friday
whenever I sent this stuff around. Um I
sent I believe the introduction section
that included sort of the background
about like what is a PCD what uh you
know what are the requirements the the
background demographics or you know our
housing our population that sort of
thing the introduction chunks and then
there are so that's like two or three
chapters depending on how we we define
it. Then there are the six substantive
chapters and then there's the
implementation. So it's I don't know
call it 10 chapters.
>> Okay. Um
so I guess
you know when when we were talking the
other day uh I like the thought about a
chapter a week and we review through it
and uh
it's not so overwhelming. Maybe it needs
to be two chapters a week. We got 10
total chapters.
Uh,
anybody
anybody got a better way than that? I
mean, some of them are pretty kind of
short. Should be pretty smooth read at
this point. We've already talked about
it that got tweaks, but and that doesn't
mean that it can't be changed again. You
know, we've got a public hearing to go
through and and we can change it based
on the things we learned there. um
and that sort of thing. But uh but if we
don't,
we ought to have a chance to read it
again before we put it up on the website
for the public to say this is our big
document that takes us through the next
10 years.
So, anybody not okay with two chapters a
week?
Maybe you can make maybe you can marry
up a long one and a short one so that
you don't get two uglers together or
something.
>> Yeah, we can we can give you the
conservation chapter um on in one week
and then everything else the following
week because that's sort of the division
of length. Um
but yeah, we'll we'll we'll give you two
two appropriate bite-sized pieces.
I guess the other thought I had on the
implementation matrix, you said that it
was long and boy that was my thought.
You know, there's a bunch of stuff there
and if somebody were to ask me,
okay, so what's what's your top three?
>> Uh I'd be hardressed to do that looking
here. And I was thinking it would be
nice for conservation, economic
development, complete streets,
you know, whoever the lead is for those
chapters. We ask them to go back and
with their team, sometimes there's a
team, sometimes there's not. Economic
development, they got a a group that
they could look at, but if they were to
to say, "Here's my top three."
And then it would be nice, you know,
we've got this cost estimate thing. It
would be nice to have a priority list.
And I'm thinking one, two, or three, uh,
you know, priorities, uh, high, medium,
low, whatever. And, you know, if we got
a high priority, low cost, boy, those
are the ones we're going to go after
quick. But, uh, we've got to have a
priority listing. And then we've got to
have the the top three things that, you
know, we want handover to be. And uh
there's some that we're going to have to
do is is our group
like probably a quality of life one. I
think that's going to be ours to do. But
uh it would be nice to get input from
the different leaders of things on what
their top three are and then just
prioritize each of these things as high,
medium, and low priority I guess is the
most uh self-explanatory as opposed to
going one through three.
Any thoughts on that part?
Well, and and to a certain extent, I
mean, we can we can do that distribution
and we'd have to probably talk about
exactly who should get copies of this,
but in many ways, the the public hearing
is is also an opportunity to to get that
sort of input uh you know, from from the
general public or or some other
stakeholders that say, "Oh, you know,
like you you're calling this out for,
you know, you don't have to get started
on this for four or five years. we
really like you to get started on this
right now. And so like during the public
hearing that input can be sort of
received and digested also.
>> Yes, we we will get some of that. But if
we don't take the first crack at that
ourselves, I think we're,
>> you know, when we go off to brief that,
you know, somebody should say, "Okay,
well, what's the big deal then that uh
you what do we really want to do here?"
You got nine pages of uh
12 pages of action items. You know
>> what what I would like to make sure is
that the next time we look at this
action item thing is in 10 years from
now when we get ready for the next one.
Then I thought planning and zoning did a
very good job of fighting through, you
know, all the recommendations from the
last one and put the changes into the
regulations that were there. And I think
that's going to be very important for us
to do. Uh, but some of these other
things, uh, you know, I think it's
important that we know what the big
tickets are so that we can write a a
little beat in and say something about
that, you know.
So that uh
I I guess Eric's going to do complete
streets.
Patrick's going to do economic
development.
Hank is going to do conservation.
And and I'm sorry, Jed. So, is the idea
to just
uh check the priorities or to to to pick
off the top three, top five, something
like that, and and flag them?
So both top three and prioritize the uh
the bunch of actions that they got high,
medium or low
because you know economic development
could come in and say
your battery is running low.
>> That's my battery running. Okay. Um
plug it in.
>> My battery is fine.
>> Yeah.
I got no place.
>> What you doing there? Are we going red?
Good.
>> Oh, hey. It'll be all right till I get
back surgery
and then maybe John, you, me, and Eric
are going to have to do some work on
this uh
on some of these things.
And maybe Eric's that's unfair to expect
him to do it. He's got his plate very
full. Maybe it's just you, me, and you
and me have to get together and go
through some.
>> Yeah, we can do that.
>> Okay.
Um, so yeah. So, all right. So, we will
we'll but broadly speaking, we will um
start distributing a couple of chapters
a week between now and the next meeting.
>> Yeah, I was going to make fun of the
economic development. I know their
number one priority is going to be to
move the uh public course over to the
transfer station
and and that's going to be the high
dollar side. But
>> yeah, we'll see how it go.
>> Really?
>> Oh jeez.
>> All right, they're gone.
Let me pause the
>> All right. We can't see you yet, but
everyone seems active.
[Music]
John, can you hear us?
>> I can hear. We can hear you. Can't see
you, but we can hear you.
>> Can you hear us? Okay.
>> Yeah, it's fine.
>> Okay. I don't know if I can.
>> All right. There we go.
>> Okay.
Well, based on
based on the technological challenges
here.
We're going to do a couple of things,
but
um
zoning agent report.
Okay. Um
let's see. Cool shed zone change. Um I
noticed at 12 Center Street they started
framing finally.
Finally.
Um
>> they got a foundation.
>> Yeah, foundation's been there for a
while.
>> Okay.
>> Framing's going up if that's news. Uh
then I I went out to our Pineriidge. Um
>> what's he building?
Just a residence.
Okay.
as far as I know.
>> Well, that was something that Jim
brought me to early on pointing it out.
>> Yeah.
>> And I drove by a few times.
>> We want money to build a duplex.
>> We can't build a duplex.
>> That's why I as a question. So,
rookie
>> um
went by
went over to Pine Ridge. um George Korea
Carrera
and uh
I don't know if Scott's been over um
he did remove the uh or he did smooth
out the wood chips and stuff as as had
been discussed
and pulled back the bill that he pushed
down over the embankment in the
southeast corner. Yeah, southeast
corner.
and exposed the U
can that marks the corner of of the lot.
Although it it's above the ground by
about an inch, I'd say
I looked at it was underground. That's
because the water's still coming off the
hill right on top of it. It's covering
it up. He did I mean does have silk
fence above it and below it. He's
supposed to have a
um whale in there to move the water,
>> but right now the sil fence is is kind
of in the way.
>> No water supposed to go on somebody
else's property. Your water supposed to
stand up.
You're supposed to have a swale that
takes it off that
>> Oh, that's right.
You can see where it's coming through
the uh ENS
and down right on top of it and it's
covering up the
tit.
>> So he needs to pull back even further
than he needs to put that way on,
>> right?
>> All right.
So that's that and u
that's my report
something else I can report on but I
believe we're having an executive
session for that or maybe not
>> maybe not we're we're getting pretty
late in the evening here right
I'm having second buzz on that but
there's
nothing to report from the inland
wetlands water course agent
and so we're down planted
uh I don't have a ton additional to
report other than what we talked about
um I have participated in the last
couple weeks um a few uh transportation
safety and transportation priority
meetings along with um Eric and members
of Crag. Uh so we we you know
identifying again for for long-term
planning purposes uh identifying
priority intersections, priority
improvements. Um
and we you know Eric and I went through
a lot of that. Uh they're also going to
be this Thursday
um a staff level meeting uh in Eric's
office about the um kickoff of the
design project for the trail that's
going to connect the the the town hall
complex with the airline trail uh
overland. not the not the Routes 316
lots plan, but the but the multi-use
trail that's going to go through the the
back land and and connect up with the
Hop River Trail. So, that design is
going to get kicked off on Thursday.
Um that design is is grant funded. We
got a grant from uh D Rec Trails.
Um so that's that's all I have
additional.
>> Okay. Thanks, John.
Next up is public speak.
Miss Hutchinson, you have anything uh
else for us at this point?
>> No, I don't. Thank you very much.
>> Okay. Do I have anything else?
>> Nothing at this time. Thank you. Okay.
Approval of the minutes.
I make a motion to approve the public
hearing and regular meeting minutes for
Tuesday, August 19th, 2025.
>> Okay. Any comments on the minutes?
>> Just one small thing.
>> Yeah.
under
9C
um town planner etc. The second line
says along route six and the op river.
>> Oh yeah. Okay. Should be river then.
Yeah.
>> I no I was using my cochnney accent at
the time.
>> Anything else, Leah?
No.
>> Okay.
So, I'll modify my motion to approve the
uh
public hearing in regular meeting
minutes from Tuesday, August 19th, 2025
as amended.
Seconds. Any further discussion?
Calling for a vote. Dam. Scott
>> Hi,
>> Liam.
>> I
>> Patrick abstain
and I vote I as well passes 401 Patrick
abstaining.
Okay. Um
I guess uh you know will even in spite
of the uh
plainness given that there is activity
going on over at the uh gravel pit I
will make a motion to enter executive
session for the purpose of discussing
the gravel pit. Uh the attendees would
be all commission members, town planner,
zoning enforcement officer
means
okay. Um any discussion?
>> Jet, I'm sorry, Jet. Jet Jet
>> Sorry. One quick element of discussion
just logistically if I might ask
Katherine if she would prefer to stay on
and and we will return to the regular
session right before adjournment or I if
the adjournment is the only thing left I
I would ask perhaps that Katherine would
excuse herself and we don't have to go
into a separate uh
breakout room. We'll just stop
recording.
But if if if Cath if you'd prefer to
stick around, we'll go into a a room.
>> Will there be any action or report or
anything done after the um
>> there will not session pertaining to the
>> There will not be anything any action
taken
>> and no discussion
>> that I would be interested in. Correct.
That's right. Yeah.
>> Then yes, if all I need to do is just
log off, assign out. Correct.
>> Correct.
>> Yep.
>> All right. Um, yes, I will do that right
now and then test to make sure I've
gotten out because now I have to find
Oh, right. Leave meeting, right?
>> Correct. Thank you. Thank you,
Katherine.
>> That's not a problem. Thank you.
>> Good evening.
All right. Um, so, okay. So, Jed, I
interrupted the vote that we're still
on. That was discussion. You need to
call the the the motion and I will turn
off the recording.
>> Okay. The camera member, do we vote?
>> Here we go. Motion made second.
>> Dan,
>> Scott,
>> Leanne,
>> hi.
>> Patrick,
>> I vote as well. The motion passes 500.
>> Okay. Um, well, thank you all very much
for uh hanging in there tonight. It's
way later than uh than I thought we'd
be.
>> I'm sorry, Jed.
>> I It may just be worthwhile noting that
you've returned out of executive session
at 10:12 and no actions were taken.
>> Okay, very good. I think you just uh got
that in the record. Thank you, John.
>> Yep.
>> And then uh next meeting is
October 21st to be held as a hybrid
meeting. And I make a motion that we
adjourn.
>> And seconds. All in favor say I.
>> I.
>> Okay. Motion passes 500. Thank you all
for attending tonight.